Hey everyone. Welcome back to
Movie Recap. My name is Silverra.
Today I'm gonna show you a 2017 action
thriller superhero film called, Logan.
Logan, formerly the Wolverine, wakes up in the
back of a limo, groggy and disheveled. It's the
middle of the night. He stumbles out and finds a
Mexican gang trying to steal the limo's wheels.
Logan calmly attempts to intervene but one of
the gang members blasts him with a shotgun.
Standing up, Logan reveals his claws,
an act that is evidently painful,
but one doesn't extend all the way. He fights the
gang, receiving his share of abuse as they beat
him down, but manages to brutally maim and
kill most of them before the rest run away.
The year is 2029. Looking no older than 50, Logan
has still aged to over 170 years and is no longer
the same fighter he once was. His superhuman
healing ability is failing and the adamantium
in his body is slowly killing him. As a result,
his body aches and he coughs up blood on occasion.
Mutants are on the brink of extinction and no
new ones have been born in 25 years. Logan now
makes a living driving for a limo service in
El Paso, Texas under his birth name, James
Howlett. He also carries an adamantium bullet
with him in case he ever decides to end it all.
While he waits for a client at a funeral, he
is approached by a woman named Gabriela Lopez.
She claims to know who he is and asks
for his help, but Logan turns her away.
Gabriela drives off as a young girl
in the back seat stares at Logan.
One morning a man enters Logan's limo, introducing
himself as Donald Pierce. He appears to know much
about Logan, saying he's aware of his unofficial
participation in the killing of the gang members
and alludes to Logan's side job as caretaker
for one Charles Xavier just south of the border.
Pierce says he knows Logan was contacted
by a person of interest and claims that
he only wants what Gabriela has; something she
took from him. He hands Logan a card and tells
him to call when he finds Gabriela again. The
card reads that Donald is head of security at
'Alkali-Transigen', a biotechnological
corporation. Logan drives off, furious.
Logan heads into Mexico to an abandoned plant
where he and the clairvoyant mutant Caliban, an
albino psychic, are taking care of Xavier. Charles
has been reduced to a shell of his former self,
crippled and suffering from a degenerative
brain disease which produces seizures.
Thanks to his mutation, the seizures produce
staggering psionic blasts which paralyze anyone
within reach. Logan must administer a special
serum to keep Xavier's episodes under control,
though the doses often leave him confused and
senile. Xavier has become broken since the loss
of his school and fellow X-Men some time ago and
says that Logan is just waiting for him to die.
Logan argues with Caliban about
obtaining enough medicine for Xavier.
Caliban explains that it's hard caring
for Xavier, especially when Logan won't
communicate about his own needs which
are more than evident to the albino.
Logan storms off. Later he receives a notification
for two passengers and drives to a motel.
There, he comes across Gabriela again with the
young girl whom Gabriela says is her 11 year
old daughter, Laura. She offers Logan $50,000
to help them reach a place called 'Eden' in
North Dakota en route to Canada before handing
him an envelope with coordinates written on it
and $20,000 inside. Logan reluctantly
agrees and heads home to prepare. There,
he tells Xavier that their dream of leaving
and buying a boat may actually become reality.
However, when he returns to the motel,
he finds that Gabriela has been murdered
and Laura is missing. Logan takes Gabriela's
cell phone and finds she was in the process
of sending him a text telling him to hurry
as they've been found. Logan returns home,
dejected, but is stunned to find that Laura
has stowed away in the trunk of his limo.
Xavier excitedly hosts the young girl and tries to
convince Logan that she needs their help. However,
Logan correctly predicts that she'll be found and,
soon enough, Pierce comes knocking at their door.
Logan claims Laura is not there and, when Pierce
persists, Laura throws a pipe at his head,
knocking him out. Logan tells Caliban to take
Pierce out into the desert and leave him there.
Caliban dresses heavily to protect his sensitive
skin from the sun and carts Pierce's body away,
but a squad of elites from Transigen, the Reavers,
arrive. They pick up Pierce and capture Caliban.
The Reavers return to the plant and two enter to
retrieve Laura, who is calmly eating a bowl of
cereal, while Logan and the others wait outside.
They all hear commotion from inside, including
screams and gunfire. Laura appears, throwing
the head of one of the Reavers at Pierce's feet.
She then steps forward, producing two
adamantium claws from each of her hands
and one from each foot and viciously attacks the
Reavers. A stunned Logan finally helps her fight
and flees the scene in the limo with Xavier and
Laura in the backseat. Caliban is taken by the
Reavers and tortured with sunlight in order to
get him to use his powers to track the trio.
Logan demands to know who Laura is and Xavier
responds that she is very much like him. Logan
looks through Gabriela's phone for clues and finds
a video which reveals that she used to work for
Transigen in the genetics department. However,
the phone dies before the video can finish.
They stop at a convenience store to stock up
on supplies. The clerk attempts to stop Laura
from shoplifting some chips and sunglasses but
she easily flips him over and nearly claws him
before Logan intervenes, saying "Not okay". He
then takes a phone charger and cigar and leaves.
That night, as the phone charges, Logan watches
the rest of Gabriela's video. She had documented
her role as a nurse in the genetic experimentation
of new mutant children, led by Dr. Zander Rice,
with the intention of turning them into
super soldiers. Using DNA from known mutants,
most of whom were deceased, the children were
conceived and born to anonymous mothers who would
not be missed. The children, including Laura, were
dubbed X-23 and raised under harsh conditions.
Simple pleasures, such as birthdays, were frowned
upon. The experiment was deemed a failure due to
the fact that the children sustained too much
emotion and often refused to follow orders.
With the introduction of X-24, it was
decided the children would be terminated.
Rather than see them killed, Gabriela helped
orchestrate an escape and the location of Eden
was designated as a safe point so the children
could live free in Canada. In the video's final
moments, Gabriela admits that she is not
Laura's mother but loves her all the same.
Addressing Logan, she apologizes
for lying about the total fee
that she would pay him but hopes that, as
her biological father, he will keep her safe.
The trio enter Oklahoma City and take residence
in a hotel where Logan discovers that Laura has
been reading an X-Men comic book. He finds that
the coordinates to Eden are included in the book
and is convinced that the whole trip is a charade.
Angry, he confronts Laura to Xavier's disdain and
tells her the X-Men stories she's been reading
are fantasized and that Eden does not exist.
Logan leaves Xavier and Laura in their room
and goes downstairs where he sees that the
Reavers have followed them. Suddenly, everyone
becomes paralyzed and Logan realizes Xavier is
suffering another seizure. Having ever been the
only one able to partially resist the effects,
Logan struggles to make it back to
the room where some of the Reavers
have already found Laura and Xavier. Logan kills
them all before injecting Xavier with his serum,
ending the paralysis, and the
three escape in a new vehicle.
On the road, a report goes over the incident in
Oklahoma City and relates the similarity to an
event that occurred in Westchester one year prior,
but Logan turns off the radio. They are nearly
run off the road by a robotic freight truck and
swerve to avoid a pickup hauling a trailer full
of horses. Xavier convinces Logan to help and uses
his telepathic powers to bring the horses back.
The driver introduces himself as Will Munson
accompanied by his wife Kathryn and son Nate.
Logan then helps push their pickup
out of a ditch. Kathryn offers Logan
and his 'family' to have dinner with
them which Xavier happily accepts.
Logan is eager to leave immediately after dinner
but Kathryn offers them to spend the night as it's
late. Logan only agrees for Xavier's sake and
carries him upstairs to bed. Seeing that their
water supply has been tampered with, Will goes
out to investigate and Logan tags along. They find
and fix the obvious leak at the pump some distance
away and are confronted by a group of thugs led by
a man who owns the land. He harasses Will, saying
he's been skimping on payments, but Logan hits
one of the thugs in the face with his own rifle
and breaks it over his knee, scaring them off.
Back at the house, Xavier lies in bed and senses
Logan entering the room. He tearfully pleads
with him to be patient with Laura, asleep on the
floor beside him, and expresses regret and remorse
over what happened a year ago. It is implied that
Xavier suffered a massive seizure at his school in
Westchester which resulted in the deaths of most
of the X-Men. He apologizes but Logan pushes his
claws through Xavier's chest. Laura attacks in
Charles' defense. The attacker turns out to be
a mindless and merciless clone of Logan, the X-24.
The mutant abducts Laura and slaughters Nate and
Kathryn. Upon returning, Will is struck down by
the X-24 and Logan rushes upstairs to get Xavier
who is just barely alive. Logan consoles him,
"It wasn't me", as he carries him downstairs.
Outside, the Reavers wait with Pierce and Dr.
Rice. Caliban is confined in a surveillance van.
The thugs who abused Will before arrive at the
house in retaliation for their earlier humiliation
but X-24 kills them all. Logan sets Xavier down in
the bed of a pickup truck. Charles utters the name
of their boat and dies. Bereaved, Logan engages
X-24 in a furious fight. Meanwhile, Caliban
fights back against his captors and sets off two
grenades, muttering the phrase his mother once
told him: "Beware the light." The van explodes
and Pierce is thrown out while Rice escapes.
Logan is nearly overpowered by the X-24 until
Will rams into the mutant with his truck,
pinning him against some farm equipment.
Will repeatedly shoots X-24 with a shotgun
and then turns the gun on Logan. The gun is
out of shots and Will collapses, dead. Logan
retrieves Laura and takes her with Xavier's
body and drives away. The following morning,
Dr. Rice and his crew take care of the scene
and inject X-24 with an agent to help him heal.
Logan buries Charles in an unmarked
grave in the woods while Laura watches.
Afterwards, he goes back to their truck and begins
smashing it in fury before passing out. Later,
Logan wakes up in a clinic. The doctor tells Logan
he knows he's a mutant and says he wants to help
him, aware that the adamantium in his body is
killing him. Logan refuses and leaves with Laura.
He begrudgingly thanks her and she finally speaks
by responding 'you're welcome' in Spanish. Logan
is perplexed as to why she never spoke before,
but Laura begins rattling in Spanish the names
of her friends from Transigen. She tells Logan
they must meet up with them in Eden and presses
him with such persistence that Logan finally
concedes, but only to prove Eden doesn't exist.
The two just barely make it and Logan is drained
to the point of unconsciousness, so much that
Laura had to drive the remaining miles there. At
a cliff, a lift is dropped for Logan so they can
ascend and he and Laura are finally able to rest
along with the remaining children led by Rictor.
The kids prank Logan by shaving his beard in his
sleep to more closely resemble how he looked in
his youth, but Logan is not amused. Rictor gives
Logan a serum that was used on them in Transigen
to help him re-energize and heal, but he warns
Logan not to use it all at once. Logan then tells
Laura that he's done his job in delivering her
to Eden and emotionally explains that everyone he
cares about dies and it's better he leaves. Laura
bitterly responds that she should be fine, then.
In the morning, the children are gone
and Logan is about to leave when he sees
that the Reavers have caught up to them, tracking
the children. Logan runs to intercept them as the
Reavers pick off the children one by one. Despite
using their powers, the children are outnumbered.
Injecting all of the healing agent at once,
Logan kills most of the Reavers and confronts
Dr. Rice who has rounded up the children and
is holding them at gunpoint. Rice reveals
that he is actually the son of the man killed by
Wolverine when he escaped the Weapon X project.
Rice admits responsibility for the extinction of
mutants thanks to a virus developed by Transigen
that was seeped into food supplies. Before he can
continue, Logan shoots him dead in a desperate
move and goes after Pierce. However, X-24 is
released and Logan fights his clone once more.
Seeing that Pierce is in complete control
of X-24, the children gang up on him and
use their collective powers (electrocution,
freezing, plant manipulation, etc.) to kill him.
As the healing agent in Logan's body
wears off, he becomes overpowered
by his younger clone until X-24 finally
impales Logan on a dead tree limb.
Laura then uses the adamantium bullet Logan
carried with him to shoot X-24 in the head,
obliterating it. She runs to Logan
and cuts him down from the tree,
but Logan's wounds aren't healing. Logan
tearfully tells Laura to run with the others;
they're free. She cries, calling him 'Daddy' and
Logan responds, "So, this is what it feels like"
before he dies. The children bury Logan and raise
a cross at the head of the grave as Laura recites
from a Western, the movie Shane 1953, that
she and Xavier watched in the Oklahoma hotel:
The children then leave, their
future uncertain but free.
Laura takes the cross on Logan's grave
and tilts it sideways, to look like an X.
Thanks for watching. See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click
the bell icon to get new video updates
Have a nice day